Welcome back everyone.
So in the last few lessons we end up separating all of our code that was related to our front end into
a client folder and we now have all of our back and code in the root folder.
Now what we need to do is move all of this code up onto Heroku because now our application needs to
run with this new backend.
And we know that all of our code works in local development so we need to see if this will work on Heroku
production.
And it's actually really easy when we first moved all of our code into this new client folder.
We actually left a dot get file and the DOT getting north if you remember now the dot get file holds
the history of everything that's ever happened inside of this one root directory which means that any
of the changes that we make is being tracked still inside of this get folder.
So this is really good for us because that means that if we push to the same project there won't be
any conflicts.
And even if we need to I can show you guys how to make sure that you force a push to Heroku if you want
Heroku to have all of your latest code.
Now there is one caveat which is that if any of you have actually cloned this project ever since we
worked on our first deployment to Heroku then you might have to re link your project to the old project
you had on Heroku or you can also make a new Heroku project inside of Heroku if you want to and then
push this code to that one but you will end up with two separate running Heroku apps.
It's entirely up to you.
All of these are just tools how you want to use them is entirely up to you but what I'm going to show
you is how you can link this project to your existing Heroku project.
If you've closed down any of the project links that I've given you throughout this course if you've
done that the one thing that you have to make sure to do is make sure that if you want to add Heroku
to this project you just got to know the name of the actual app that you deployed before.
So if you run Heroku apps you'll see a list of the apps that you have.
And this crown live is actually the one that I want.
So just copy the name of this project or whatever the name of your last deployed project was and then
you just run Heroku get remote dash a and then you paste in the name of your project and when you do
this it will now link this project to that Heroku account because it'll give you access to a new remote
inside of this get called Heroku.
So if you type and get remote you'll see that there is Heroku along with Origin origin is going to be
the name of the get file that your get hub account is linked to.
So whatever the name of your get Hub Repository is is what Origin will be Heroku is now that hero could
project.
So if we do get push Heroku we're going to push to Heroku now the only other thing we need to really
change is we have to actually get rid of the build pack that we were running before which was specifically
when we were deploying a create react app application.
But now what we're deploying is a express server and that express several will end up building and bundling
our client code and doing the optimization there before actually sending that through whenever we hit
one of our links that is not our payment route and you'll remember that we did this inside of our server
jazz file right here where we say that whenever anyone tries to get at any other route what we want
to do is we want to send them our ended client build project specifically our index that H2 so we need
to actually now modify our build pack.
In fact we need to actually remove the build back.
So what you can do really easily is say Heroku build packs and this will list out any build packs we
currently have on this project.
So we have our Mars create react.
So just copy that and then we're going to run Heroku build packs colon remove and then paste in the
name of Mars create reactive.
Now this will end up removing the build pack so we don't use it the next time we need to build our project
and Heroku will build our project.
Once we push up our newest code that we've written but we do have to also commit this new code that
we've actually added.
So there's gonna be a big commit that we need to make.
So first I'm just going to clear this so that I can say get ad dash a.
So this will add all the files that we need and then I'm going to say get commit dash M separating our
CRM app into client folder added express server to help handle back end stripe payment and now we've
added all of our code and then we're going to run get push Heroku
master so this will push all of this code that we've got recently on our Heroku up onto the master branch.
Now if you encounter some conflicts because your history is a little odd but you know that your code
is working you can append a dash dash force flag and this will force this project to push this latest
code up onto your Heroku.
Now typically you don't want to do this in a big large scale production app because pushing to master
and forcing a change on the Get history is a bad practice.
But because this is our own personal project and because we have a long track and get history with all
of the code that I've updated for you recently you can do this no problem.
This is mostly a practice that you have to keep in mind not to do when you're actually working in a
real professional setting but for the sake of your own personal projects because you're the only person
working on this.
It's not a big issue at all so then once you enter this will push and update all of our latest code
up onto that Heroku production.
Now the only new thing we also have to change is going to be thinking about our DOT and file our DOT
m file is actually inside of our get ignore because we don't want to push up our secret keys onto any
jet remotes right.
Anyone with access to our kit remote can then see what our secret keys are.
So we don't want to do that.
What we do want to do though is let her Roku access the secret values that we have stored inside of
the environment and the way we do that is actually with a Heroku config tool.
So I'll show you how to do that.
After our production code finishes building now that Heroku is finished building our project we need
to set a config variable.
So you're just going to say Heroku config colon set and then stripe secret key equals and then you're
gonna paste in the secret key that you have inside of your environment variable.
So make sure that you paste it in without the quotations because just like our DOT and Heroku doesn't
need it to be a string then you're going to hit enter and that will now allow Heroku to actually use
the secret key in your project.
So I'm not going to paste mine in of course because I don't want anyone to see it because again it is
a secret key.
And now if we run a Heroku open we should have our project up with our latest new code so in order for
us to test if everything's working let's just add some items into our cart go to our checkout and complete
our payment flow.
So this is an auto complete.
And then I'm going to enter in our fake credit card and now if I hit pay now if I get the alert that
everything was successful which we did.
If we go to our dashboard and we refresh
we should see our latest payment which we do.
So now we have completed the full production version of our application with our stripe payment and
charge back as well.
So now your application is up to date with everything you need in order for strike to make a payment.
So this is actually all you needed to do.
The only thing is that if you actually want to have a real stripe charge where the actual credit card
is a real credit card and everything works you do have to activate your account and then you can switch
over from test mode into production mode.
But the code doesn't change because everything is going to be the same.
The only difference is that the actual strike dashboard right now does not allow us to do it because
I have not activated this account.
It's just a long survey to fill out letting stripe know what kind of business you're running and all
the other legal issues related around it.
But it's actually really easy in order for us to do this.
Now if you already had the existing project linked to Heroku and you've been just using one exact same
application up until now you didn't need to do that Heroku set apart.
You could have just run everything up until the from the get commit and get add to what we just did
now and everything will still work.
So hopefully you've deployed your application up onto Heroku now and your code is up to date.
And with that we're done.
Our back end section we've updated all of our code to our latest back in server with our client side
separation.
So now you've got a better idea at the very least of how back ends and front ends interact from a full
stack perspective but with that let's continue with our course.